CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Before pull request

This page describes how to create a pull request. We highly recommend you to read this page before you will decide to send us your changes.

## Named branches

First you should know little bit about our workflow. Right now we work with several named branches (https://www.mercurial-scm.org/wiki/NamedBranches).

* *default* - used only for releases.
* *develop* - branch that contains a code for the next major release. Code in this branch good enough for testing and sharing among developers.
* *feature* - branch that contains a code for unfinished features.
* *release* - used for feature freeze state before the next major release. And for preparing the next minor release.

These are the main branches you should know about. There are several long term task specific branches in repository too. But we will not discuss them in this document.

## Check yourself

There are several things you should know for successful creating a pull request.

- Please, read carefully official tutorial from Atlassian Making a Pull Request (https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/making-a-pull-request).
- Normally you are not allowed create new named branches. You should use **develop**, **feature** or **release** depend on a purpose.
- Be sure you use correct branch for your changes. **This is the most popular mistake.**
- - For very small/trivial patches (contains only one commit) use the **develop** named branch directly.
- - For regular patches (contains several commits) you should use the branch **feature (recommended way)**. Don't worry if repository already contains one. We can have as many as we need.
- Add correct description for your pull request. It should contain string "Resolved (or Fixed) issue #XXX. <Text of an issue description>". Where XXX is a number of issue in the Issue Tracker. Read more about Resolving issues automatically when push code (https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucket/resolve-issues-automatically-when-users-push-code-221451126.html).
- Don't forget to add your changes to file ChangeLog.txt.
- Merge your **develop/feature** branch with **develop** branch.

# Reviewing 
Most likely we will ask you to fix some issues in a code. In this case you will add your changes to the **feature** branch and update your pull request. No need to create new one each time.

Commit message:

Updatd for github
Urls are now to github tutorials. Changed **feature** branch to allow named branches that reflect the feature or fix, i.e. **<feature or fix>** branch. This will allow multiple feature branches at the same time and assist with accurate team collaboration and admin. Can still use the branch name 'feature' if preferred.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Before pull request

This page describes how to create a pull request. We highly recommend you to read this page before you will decide to send us your changes.

## Named branches

First you should know little bit about our workflow. Right now we work with several named branches.

* *master* - used only for releases.
* *develop* - branch that contains a code for the next major release. Code in this branch good enough for testing and sharing among developers.
* *<feature or fix>* - branch that contains a code for an unfinished features.
* *release* - used for feature freeze state before the next major release. And for preparing the next minor release.

These are the main branches you should know about. There are several long term task specific branches in repository too. But we will not discuss them in this document.

## Check yourself

There are several things you should know for successful creating a pull request.

- Please, read the Github tutorials about making Pull Requests (https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/) and (https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/).
- You should use **<feature or fix>**, **develop**, or **release**, depending on your purpose.
- Be sure you use correct branch for your changes. **This is the most popular mistake.**
- - For regular patches (contains several commits) you should use the branch **feature or fix name**. 
- Add correct description for your pull request. It should contain string "Resolved (or Fixed) issue #XXX. <Text of an issue description>". Where XXX is a number of issue in the Issue Tracker. Read more about Resolving issues automatically when push code (https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucket/resolve-issues-automatically-when-users-push-code-221451126.html).
- Don't forget!!!Add your changes to file ChangeLog.txt!!!
- Merge your **develop/<feature or fix>** branch with **develop** branch.

# Reviewing 
Most likely we will ask you to fix some issues in a code. In this case you will add your changes to the **<feature or fix>** branch and update your pull request. No need to create new one each time.
